# `bip2bib`: map BIP-39 words to bible verses

Deterministically map each BIP39 seed word to a Bible verse with optional passphrase.

## Setup

```
git clone https://github.com/cgoliver/bip2bib
cd bip2bib
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

```
python bip2bib.py --help
python bip2bib.py -o out.txt
```

Will generate a text file that looks like:

```
abandon Daniel 13:55
ability Jeremiah 50:29
able 1 Samuel 31:7
about 1 Kings 22:38
above Numbers 27:14
...
youth Daniel 13:8
zebra Esther 4:9
zero Genesis 21:21
zone 2 Chronicles 13:2
zoo Matthew 14:35
```

To make the mapping unique to you (but still deterministic) you can set the random seed:

```
python bip2bib.py -o out.txt -s 492919
```

Which generates:


```
abandon Exodus 11:9
ability Numbers 28:13
able Exodus 13:11
about 1 Peter 2:1
above Deuteronomy 20:17
...
youth Mark 5:38
zebra 1 Corinthians 7:4
zero Jonah 1:2
zone 1 Chronicles 26:29
zoo Numbers 6:2
```

You can always recover this mapping if you remember the seed word you provided.

## How it works

Very simple. We just generate a list of all bible verses in sequential order (saved in `verses.txt`). Each word in the [BIP39 word list](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039/english.txt) is assigned to a Bible verse by shuffling the bible verses with a seed for reproducibility.

## Tips

* The mapping construction depends on Python's `random.shuffle()` with a seed parameter. This should give consistent outputs across platforms but may be different for diferent Python versions. Make sure that if you are trying to re-generate a mapping, it's done with the same Python version. To avoid this altogether, we provide a precomputed mapping `canonical.txt` which you can simply refer to (seed: `3`), best to use together with a passphrase. The `canonical.txt` file should not be touched but for extra precaution you can note down the git hash of the file you used.
* Make sure you are using `verses.txt` provided in this repository. If you are executing within the cloned repo there should be nothing to do. But if the file is not found in the current directory, a routine will execute to generate a list of all bible verses but it cannot be guaranteed to always be identical since it is generated by a third party library.
* It is generally recommended to also use a [BIP-39 passphrase](https://coldcard.com/docs/passphrase/).

> ⚠️ **Warning:** Software provided with no warranty. Use at your own risk.
